---
title: "Week 1: Questions of the Week"
author: "STAT 385 - James Balamuta"
date: "2017-06-19"
slug: qna-week1
layout: post
categories: qna
tags:
- questions
- answers
---

# Introduction

Every week students are allowed to ask a question that is not necessarily 
related to course material and get a response. The questions of course must be
appropriate and the student must feel comfortable answering it.

Typically, these questions are associated with a weekly feedback survey that
tries to figure out areas of the course that can be improved or topics that
were covered well.

# Questions

1. **Q:** *¯\_(ツ)_/¯*
   - ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
1. **Q:** *What is the right way to promote coding and programming ability?*
   - I believe that coding should _gradually_ be introduced into everyday life.
     If you can think of a repetitive task, try to figure out a way to automate 
     it using a script. Just keep in mind that there are some downfalls to 
     automating everything (relevant [xkcd: automation](https://xkcd.com/1319/)).
     So, one could say that I'm advocating for an "Always Be Coding" approach
     with the need for moderation.
1. **Q:** *Are all the quotes you use in the lecture slides from books you have actually read?*
   - Truth be told, many of the quotes are from books that I've read _cover to cover_. However,
   only a **small** fraction of the quotes that I use are from books where I've
   only read a chapter or two from. I feel that if quote is going to be used,
   then it would be wise to convey the motivation behind it.
1. **Q:** *Do you want to become a professor after completing your PhD?*
   - Yes. Academia is a _lot_ of fun with new and different challenges arising
   each and everyday. Plus, I get to retain my _youth_ and expand my horizons 
   by working with young adults such as yourselves.  
1. **Q:** *Do you salsa?*
   - I've attempted to salsa before only to be hurried off the dance floor by
   my date. 
1. **Q:**  *Do you play any video games?*
   - I've been known to dabble now and then; but, nothing as of late due to
     a lack of spare time given my active projects. 
1. **Q:** *Can a student with no prior knowledge in C language understand the materials?*
   - Yes. _C_ isn't used at all within the course. We briefly cover _C++_ toward
   the end through _Rcpp_. This is a relatively **gentle** introduction by 
   all accounts.
1. **Q:** *How to use minimum effort to success in this course?*
   - Already working on an optimization problem I see... Well, my advice would
   be to show up to class as everything is really built around what is covered
   in lecture.
1. **Q:** Variants of... *How likely am I to get an A in this course?*
   - If you put in the time and do the work, then you will receive an _A_. (e.g.
   midterm, homework, and 4 group project phases.)
1. **Q:** *How does this course relate to STAT 428?*
   - This course can be viewed as a pre-cursor to STAT 428 as it seeks to impart
     practical statistical programming knowledge whereas STAT 428 goes more
     indepth with respect to the statistical theory behind an operation.
1. **Q:** *How much wood could a woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck could chuck wood?*
   - According to [Cornell University](http://news.cornell.edu/stories/1996/02/groundhog-day-facts-and-factoids),
    a woodchuck could chuck about 700 pounds.